EC-84: Revise Configuration, Customers, eContent, Login and Logging (#5)
ezsystems/commerce-documentation: docs/guide/customers/customers.md

# Customers

Customers are stored as User Content items in the database.

> eZ Commerce uses all features connected to users such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eZ Commerce uses the following features that are connected to users:
```

- Roles and Policies
- extensible User model
- User Groups
- password management
- activation of accounts
- session handling

In addition, eZ Commerce supports multiple user accounts with the same email address (e.g. for a multi-shop setup).

> eZ Commerce adds new Fields to the User Content Type which are required for the shop:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eZ Commerce adds the following new Fields to the User Content Type that are required for the shop:
```

- first name, last name
- salutation
- customer profile data
- customer number, contact number
- budget per order and per month (used by the Customer Center plugin)

### User Groups

Each shop stores private and business customers in different User Groups. If required, shops can also share one common User Group.

![](../img/customers_1.png)

### ERP system as the master

The customers are directly connected to the ERP system if they have a customer number or/and a contact number. 

> The customer number is usually the main reference to the ERP system and it is stored as a read-only Field in the User Content item. 

Reviewer: Does "main reference to the ERP system" mean "main reference that points to the ERP system"? or "main reference that allows the ERP system to distinguish users"?

> The shop automatically gets the information from the ERP the first time the user information (customer profile data) is requested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The shop gets the information from the ERP automatically when user information (customer profile data) is requested for the first time.
```

The information is stored in the session to reduce the number of calls to ERP.

The ERP system provides:

- invoice address
- buyer address
- a list of delivery addresses
- contact information if the user has a contact number
- further information depending on the ERP system

### Accessing customer data in a template

> The template offers a global Twig variable which contains the main information about the current user,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The template offers a global Twig variable that contains the main information about the current user,
```

{% endif %}
```

!!! caution

    Do not use methods of the customer service inside a constructor of a service.
    The constructor is built at a very early stage of the process and the system may not have the information that a user is already logged in.

    Do not use the [customer service](customers_api/customer_profile_data_components/customer_profile_data_services.md) in any place that cannot access the session.
    An example would be a CLI tool, or processes that happen in background,
    like sending out the order if a customer paid via a payment service provider.

eZ Commerce uses the UBL standard to model customer data. The most important type is the Party which describes an address. 

> For each user the following information is stored. If a user has a customer number this information is updated from the ERP after login: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each user, the following information is stored. If the user has a customer number, the following information is updated from the ERP after login: 
```

- Buyer Party
- Invoice Party

> - DeliveryParties - a list of addresses using the Party format 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- DeliveryParties - a list of addresses in the Party format 
```
